‎The seahorse
‎has a very unusual feature for a fish:
‎a prehensile, or grasping, tail.
‎This tail can anchor
‎the seahorse to one spot,
‎resisting the ocean currents
‎that surround it.
‎How does it work?
‎The cross-section
‎of the seahorse’s tail is square,
‎not round like that
‎of most other animals with gripping tails.
‎In contrast with a round shape,
‎this square shape
‎allows the tail to contact a greater area
‎of the surface being gripped,
‎making it more difficult to dislodge.
‎It can also
‎twist and untwist with minimal energy.
‎In addition, the tail
‎of the seahorse is encased
‎in overlapping bony plates
‎with many joints.
‎When subjected
‎to a potentially harmful force,
‎the plates slide over one another,
‎absorbing the energy.
‎This can prevent damage
‎to the seahorse’s spinal column.
‎The design of the seahorse’s tail
‎could be applied to search-and-rescue robots,
‎which need to be strong
‎and capable of bending and twisting
‎in tight spaces.
‎The same properties could be useful
‎in some surgical equipment.
‎According to Professor Ross Hatton:
‎“Human engineers tend to build things
‎“that are stiff
‎so they can be controlled easily.
‎“But nature makes things
‎just strong enough not to break,
‎“and then flexible enough
‎to do a wide range of tasks.
‎“That’s why we can learn
‎a lot from animals
‎that will inspire
‎the next generations of robotics.”
‎What do you think?
‎Did the seahorse’s tail evolve?
‎Or was it designed?